# Two-Phase Simplex

## Interactive Files

> Main.py
> It's an entrance of all versions of Two-Phase Simplex Method. 

> test.py
> It's a test file for the implementation. To see the results, one can delete ['''] at the head and bottom of each script. All the required libraries are well considered.

> TwoPhase_Simplex_0n.py
> These are three different versions of the Simplex Method.
> TwoPhase_Simplex_01.py - Direct implementation of Simplex.
> TwoPhase_Simplex_02.py - Simplex with Gauss Elimination presolving.
> TwoPhase_Simplex_03.py - Designed for box constraint, 0 <= x <= u
>                          using slackness (not complete yet)


## Other Files

> Report.pdf
> Including Problem Size, Parameter Formation, Comparison and Questions.

> data_file_x.npz
> These are three parameter groups of solvable problem generated by numpy.random, all with size (m,n) = (100,200). 

> x.xlsx
> These are data collected from elearning file "scrs8.mat". 

## Users' Manual

### Expected problem

>  minimize  	     c'x
>
>  subject to 	    Ax = b
>
>  		    x >= 0

#### Reference

```python
import TwoPhase_Simplex_01
TwoPhase_Simplex_0n.TwoPhase_Simplex(A,b,c)
# The answer will be printed 

# Or can use following syntax to
from TwoPhase_Simplex_01 import TwoPhase_Simplex
state,optval,iters,rtime = TwoPhase_Simplex(A,b,c)

```

#### Parameters:

> A - (m*n ndarray) Coefficient of the equation constraints
>
> b - (m list/ndarray) Rhs Constraints
>
> c - (1*n ndarray) Coefficient of the cost function

#### Returns:

> state - (int) 1 means success, 0 means unbounded or infeasible
>
> optval - (float) The optimal value of the problem
>
> iters - (int) The total number of iterations
>
> rtime - (float) Running time

#### Note:

This script will print the state while running.


#### Examples

```python
from TwoPhase_Simplex_01 import TwoPhase_Simplex

A = np.array([[1,2,2,1,0,0],[2,1,2,0,1,0],[2,2,1,0,0,1]])
b = [20,20,20]
c = np.array([-10,-12,-12,0,0,0])

TwoPhase_Simplex(A,b,c)
```

```python
Phase I
Iterations:  1
Iterations:  2
Iterations:  3
Phase II
-----------------------
State:  Solved
Optimal Value = -136.000000
Total iterations = 3
Running Time = 0.005486
```